So far, we've talked about functions and
the scoping rules in R, and
you might be wondering why any of this
information is at all useful.
So, in addition to just writing regular
functions
for manipulating data or for doing
calculations, there's one
combination of the scoping rules and
functions which can
be very useful in statistics, and that's
for optimization.
So there are a few optimization routines
in R called optim and nlm and another one
called optimize.
And they all require that you pass a
function to those functions, whose
argument is vector parameters.
So for example there's going to be some
function that you want to minimize or
maximize.
and, over range of parameters, and
functions like Optum and lmand take,
take that kind of objective function, and
try to find the minimum or the maximum.
so, the idea is that, but in statistics
this objective function that we're trying
to minimize or maximize, just like a log
likelihood, is going to depend on other
things,
besides just the parameters that you're
maximizing over.
So, for, in particular, it's going to
depend on things like data.
And so, the question is, well, how do you
specify a function.
Depend, depends on parameters and data and
perhaps many, many other things.
In a clean, way and to, to write it in a,
in a, in kind of readable
programming style and make it easier for
the
user to kind of use these types of
functions.
And so.
And further more, when you're doing these
kinds of
optimizations in many cases it's useful to
hold certain
parameters fixed and for example, fix a
parameter to
a certain value then optimize over the
other parameters.
So, the basic idea with any optimization
problem in
r is you can create a contructor function
which
constructs the objective function.
And then once the ob, and the objective
function idea, that idea is that it would
have all of the data, and all of the other
things that it depends on would
be kind of included in the defining
environment
of that function, so that it would kind
of carry along those other things like
baggage,
you know, in its, in its enclosing
environment.
And so that way you don't have to
specify those things every time you call
the function.
The only thing that you need to specify is
the value
of the parameter.
So, for here I've got, I've written
a constructor function that creates a
negative log-likelihood.
So just as a note, most of the functions
in like optim and
anolam and optimize and, in R, they all
attempt to minimize functions by default.
And so when you write your objective
functions
if they're designed to be maximized, then
you
have to kind of take the, the negative of
those functions so that you can minimize
them.
So another thing is that all
the code in this example all, will be on
the website so you can
take a look at the code and try to run it
yourself if you want.
So here I've got a constructor function
that's making a
negative log-likelihood because I want
to minimize the negative log-likelihood
function.
So this is my objective function.
It's going to depend on some data and so
that's the argument.
So the data is the first argument to this
make.makelike function.
The second argument is a logical vector
called fixed and
it determines whether or not I want to
have, want to fix some of the parameters.
So, now ins- inside the constructor
function I have to find another
function which is it takes an argument
called p for the parameters.
And this is going to be the parameter
vector that I want to optimize over.
So basically what this function's going to
do
is going to return log-likelihood for a
normal
distribution and I'm go- I'm going to
want to
fit my data to this normal distribution.
And so we know that
a normal distribution has two parameters,
the
mean, mu, and a standard deviation, sigma.
So those are going to be the two
parameters that I want to optimize over.
And so here I'm just defining, the law of
likelihood,
and taking the negative of it, so I can
minimize it.
And, what, what the constructor function
does
is returns the function as the return
value.
[NOISE]
So, here I'm going to simulate
some normal random variables, mean 1 and
vari, and sorry, mean 2.
And, and then I'm going to make my
constructor function,
I'm going to call my constructor function
with these random variables.
And create my NLL or Negative Log
Likelihood function.
So,when I print out this function here,you
will see that
it, I see the body of the function looks
like
the code for the normal distribution.Its
just like in the
construction function before, but if you
look at the environment,
you will see this little tag that at the
bottom that says environment.
And that's the enclosing environment for
this function.
And so normally because when you define a
function in the global environment,
that it would just you, there wouldn't be
a special environment tag down here.
However, when you define a function inside
of another function that and there has
to be a pointer to the, to that defining
environment so that R can remember
kind of what the values of all the free
parameters are going to be.
And so, if you look at, this, this is, 0 x
16 5 b 1 a 4.
That is the hexadecimal of.
A number which gives the address of
where the defining environment is located
in memory.
So if you look at the body of the nl
function here, you'll see
that pretty much everything here is either
a local variable or its a param-,
it comes with a parameter vector p.
However, there was one argument, th-,
sorry, there's one variable here, the data
variable, which is not an argument to the
function And it's not a
local variable, so it's a free variable
but the data come from the make neglog
like functions or constructor function
which originally pass the data to that.
And so the data can be looked up in the
environment that the function
is defined and it knows what the data are,
you don't have to tell
what the data are it's already fixed in
the function.
So if you look at the environment for this
negative log-likelihood function by
calling LS, you'll see that the the data
variables there.
The fixed variable there which indicates
which parameter should
be fixed, and then there's also the params
variable there.
So those are all.
Those three things are all free variables.
Inside this negative log likelihood
function,
but they're defined in the defining
environment.
So now I can call optim on my NLL function
and I'm
going to pass some initial values for
musing to zero and sigma to
one, and it'll run and you'll see that
when it optimizes the
function the estimates turn out to be 1.2
for muand 1.78 for sigma.
So pretty close to the truth, remember,
which was one and two.
Now I could, if I wanted to, I could fix
sigma
to be equal to its true value and then
just optimize
over mu to get the mean, and so when I
call make.
So I need to reconstruct my optim, my
objective function by calling make.neg log
like, and here I set the fixed variable to
be false from U.
And then two for Sigma.
So I'm setting Sigma to be equal to two,
and I'm letting U be three.
So here.
Now I can just call, optimize, because
optimize will minimize the function of
a single variable only.
And because I only have a single variable
in
this, function, I can use, I can use
optimize.
And you can see that it, it, it estimates
made
to be about 1.21 so slightly different
from the previous optimization.
I can also fix mu to be one and try to
optimize over over sigma and but in
order, in order to do that I have to
construct another function for
optimization call optimize on that.
Here I get my f cent of sigma
to be about 1.8.
If
I want, I can plot the likelihood, or the
log likelihood, and this is very easy
to do when I have a function that doesn't
depend on a lot of other parameters.
So here I'm going to make the neg, the
negative log likelihood.
I'm going to fix mu to be equal to one and
I'm
going to plot the negative log likelihood
as a function of sigma.
And so I construct my function here, in
LL.
I I construct a sequence of grid values
for the X coordinate, and then I
apply my NLL function to all those grid
points, and create my Y variable.
So, now I can just plot this as a, as a, I
can plot
the Xs and the Ys and connect the dots
using the type equal to L.
Similarly I can plot the negative
likelihood as a function of the
mean by fixing sigma to equal to two and
letting mu vary.
And similarly, I create another grid of
points another set of grid points and I
evaluate at the
NLL function on those grid points and then
make a plot.
So, the nice thing about lexical scoping
in R is that, if
you're doing minimization or optimization
of some sort, you can build these
objective functions, which contain all the
necessary data, and all the other
kind of bells and whistles that are
required, to evaluate that function.
Into the closing environment of the
function.
So that when you call the objective
function, you don't need
to specify the data, and all those other
things every single time.
They're kind of built in to the
environment and
they'll be automatically looked up in the
right place.
So you don't have to carry on these long
argument lists.
That in order to evaluate the function
every single time.
So this can be very useful for interactive
work,
and for exploratory work like for example
making these plots.
And this can so the code for these types
of functions
can be very simple and kind of clean
because
you don't have to carry on these large
argument lists.
So just for reference, the main reference
for this type of Lexical
Scoping rules of R, is the paper in the
journal Computation and
Graphical Statistics called Lexical Scope
and
Statistical Computing, and Robert
Gentleman and
Ross Ihaka who created R, have some very
nice examples in this article.